mobilerun/skills/mobilerun/SKILL.md, before:

---
name: mobilerun
description: >
  Control real Android phones through the Mobilerun API. Supports tapping, swiping,
  typing, taking screenshots, reading the UI accessibility tree, and managing apps.
  Use when the user wants to automate or remotely control an Android device, interact
  with mobile apps, or run AI agent tasks on a phone. Requires a Mobilerun API key
  (prefixed dr_sk_) and a connected device (personal phone via Portal APK or cloud device).
metadata: { "openclaw": { "emoji": "📱", "primaryEnv": "MOBILERUN_API_KEY" } }
---

# Mobilerun

Control real Android phones through an API -- tap, swipe, type, take screenshots, read the UI tree, manage apps, and more.

## Before You Start

Do NOT ask the user for an API key or to set up a device before checking. Always probe first:

1. **Resolve the API key silently:**
   - Check the `MOBILERUN_API_KEY` environment variable first
   - If not set, check if the user provided one in the conversation
   - Only ask the user for a key if neither is available

2. **Test the API key and check for devices in one call:**
   ```
   GET https://api.mobilerun.ai/v1/devices
   Authorization: Bearer <key>
   ```
   - `200` with a device in `state: "ready"` = **good to go, skip all setup, just do what the user asked**
   - `200` but no devices or all `state: "disconnected"` = device issue (see step 3)
   - `401` = key is bad, expired, or revoked -- ask the user to check https://cloud.mobilerun.ai/api-keys

3. **Only if no ready device:** tell the user the device status and suggest a fix:
   - No devices at all = user hasn't connected a phone yet, guide them to Portal APK (see [setup.md](./setup.md))
   - Device with `state: "disconnected"` = Portal app lost connection, ask user to reopen it

4. **Confirm device is responsive** (optional, only if first action fails):
   ```
   GET https://api.mobilerun.ai/v1/devices/{deviceId}/screenshot
   ```
   If this returns a PNG image, the device is working.

**Key principle:** If the API key is set and a device is ready, go straight to executing the user's request. Don't walk them through setup they've already completed.

## Quick Reference

| Goal | Endpoint |
|------|----------|
| See the screen | `GET /devices/{id}/screenshot` |
| Read UI elements | `GET /devices/{id}/ui-state?filter=true` |
| Tap | `POST /devices/{id}/tap` -- `{x, y}` |
| Swipe | `POST /devices/{id}/swipe` -- `{startX, startY, endX, endY, duration}` |
| Type text | `POST /devices/{id}/keyboard` -- `{text, clear}` |
| Press key | `PUT /devices/{id}/keyboard` -- `{key}` (Android keycode) |
| Go back | `POST /devices/{id}/global` -- `{action: 1}` |
| Go home | `POST /devices/{id}/global` -- `{action: 2}` |
| Open app | `PUT /devices/{id}/apps/{packageName}` |
| List apps | `GET /devices/{id}/apps` |

All endpoints use base URL `https://api.mobilerun.ai/v1` with `Authorization: Bearer dr_sk_...`.

## Detailed Documentation

- **[setup.md](./setup.md)** -- Authentication, API key setup, device connectivity, troubleshooting
- **[phone-api.md](./phone-api.md)** -- Phone control API: screenshot, UI state, tap, swipe, type, app management
- **[subscription.md](./subscription.md)** -- Plans, pricing, credits, device types, and when to recommend upgrades

## Common Patterns

**Observe-Act Loop:**
Most phone control tasks follow this cycle:
1. Take a screenshot and/or read the UI state
2. Decide what action to perform
3. Execute the action (tap, type, swipe, etc.)
4. Observe again to verify the result
5. Repeat

**Finding tap coordinates:**
Use `GET /devices/{id}/ui-state?filter=true` to get the accessibility tree with element bounds, then calculate the center of the target element to get tap coordinates.

**Typing into a field:**
1. Check `phone_state.isEditable` -- if false, tap the input field first
2. Optionally clear existing text with `clear: true`
3. Send the text via `POST /devices/{id}/keyboard`

## Error Handling

| Error | Likely cause | What to do |
|-------|-------------|------------|
| `401` | Invalid or expired API key | Ask user to verify key at https://cloud.mobilerun.ai/api-keys |
| Empty device list | No device connected | Guide user to connect via Portal APK (see setup.md) |
| Device `disconnected` | Portal app closed or phone lost network | Ask user to check phone and reopen Portal |
| Billing/plan error on `POST /devices` | Free plan, cloud devices need subscription | Tell user to check plans at https://cloud.mobilerun.ai/billing |
| Action returns error on valid device | Device may be busy, locked, or unresponsive | Try taking a screenshot first to check state |
| `403` with "limit reached" | Plan limit hit (e.g. max concurrent devices) | User needs to terminate a device or upgrade (see [subscription.md](./subscription.md)) |

Commit message:

add disabled workflows for ClawHub and SkillsMP publishing
- ClawHub: validates and publishes skills via clawhub CLI
- SkillsMP: validates SKILL.md format (auto-indexes from public repos)
- Both manual-only (workflow_dispatch) pending account setup
- Update SKILL.md to persist API key to shell profile

mobilerun/skills/mobilerun/SKILL.md, after:

---
name: mobilerun
description: >
  Control real Android phones through the Mobilerun API. Supports tapping, swiping,
  typing, taking screenshots, reading the UI accessibility tree, and managing apps.
  Use when the user wants to automate or remotely control an Android device, interact
  with mobile apps, or run AI agent tasks on a phone. Requires a Mobilerun API key
  (prefixed dr_sk_) and a connected device (personal phone via Portal APK or cloud device).
metadata: { "openclaw": { "emoji": "📱", "primaryEnv": "MOBILERUN_API_KEY" } }
---

# Mobilerun

Control real Android phones through an API -- tap, swipe, type, take screenshots, read the UI tree, manage apps, and more.

## Before You Start

Do NOT ask the user for an API key or to set up a device before checking. Always probe first:

1. **Resolve the API key silently:**
   - Check the `MOBILERUN_API_KEY` environment variable first
   - If not set, check if the user provided one in the conversation
   - Only ask the user for a key if neither is available
   - **When the user provides a key:** persist it to their shell profile so it survives sessions:
     - Append `export MOBILERUN_API_KEY="dr_sk_..."` to `~/.bashrc` (Linux) or `~/.zshrc` (macOS)
     - Also `export` it in the current shell so it takes effect immediately

2. **Test the API key and check for devices in one call:**
   ```
   GET https://api.mobilerun.ai/v1/devices
   Authorization: Bearer <key>
   ```
   - `200` with a device in `state: "ready"` = **good to go, skip all setup, just do what the user asked**
   - `200` but no devices or all `state: "disconnected"` = device issue (see step 3)
   - `401` = key is bad, expired, or revoked -- ask the user to check https://cloud.mobilerun.ai/api-keys

3. **Only if no ready device:** tell the user the device status and suggest a fix:
   - No devices at all = user hasn't connected a phone yet, guide them to Portal APK (see [setup.md](./setup.md))
   - Device with `state: "disconnected"` = Portal app lost connection, ask user to reopen it

4. **Confirm device is responsive** (optional, only if first action fails):
   ```
   GET https://api.mobilerun.ai/v1/devices/{deviceId}/screenshot
   ```
   If this returns a PNG image, the device is working.

**Key principle:** If the API key is set and a device is ready, go straight to executing the user's request. Don't walk them through setup they've already completed.

## Quick Reference

| Goal | Endpoint |
|------|----------|
| See the screen | `GET /devices/{id}/screenshot` |
| Read UI elements | `GET /devices/{id}/ui-state?filter=true` |
| Tap | `POST /devices/{id}/tap` -- `{x, y}` |
| Swipe | `POST /devices/{id}/swipe` -- `{startX, startY, endX, endY, duration}` |
| Type text | `POST /devices/{id}/keyboard` -- `{text, clear}` |
| Press key | `PUT /devices/{id}/keyboard` -- `{key}` (Android keycode) |
| Go back | `POST /devices/{id}/global` -- `{action: 1}` |
| Go home | `POST /devices/{id}/global` -- `{action: 2}` |
| Open app | `PUT /devices/{id}/apps/{packageName}` |
| List apps | `GET /devices/{id}/apps` |

All endpoints use base URL `https://api.mobilerun.ai/v1` with `Authorization: Bearer dr_sk_...`.

## Detailed Documentation

- **[setup.md](./setup.md)** -- Authentication, API key setup, device connectivity, troubleshooting
- **[phone-api.md](./phone-api.md)** -- Phone control API: screenshot, UI state, tap, swipe, type, app management
- **[subscription.md](./subscription.md)** -- Plans, pricing, credits, device types, and when to recommend upgrades

## Common Patterns

**Observe-Act Loop:**
Most phone control tasks follow this cycle:
1. Take a screenshot and/or read the UI state
2. Decide what action to perform
3. Execute the action (tap, type, swipe, etc.)
4. Observe again to verify the result
5. Repeat

**Finding tap coordinates:**
Use `GET /devices/{id}/ui-state?filter=true` to get the accessibility tree with element bounds, then calculate the center of the target element to get tap coordinates.

**Typing into a field:**
1. Check `phone_state.isEditable` -- if false, tap the input field first
2. Optionally clear existing text with `clear: true`
3. Send the text via `POST /devices/{id}/keyboard`

## Error Handling

| Error | Likely cause | What to do |
|-------|-------------|------------|
| `401` | Invalid or expired API key | Ask user to verify key at https://cloud.mobilerun.ai/api-keys |
| Empty device list | No device connected | Guide user to connect via Portal APK (see setup.md) |
| Device `disconnected` | Portal app closed or phone lost network | Ask user to check phone and reopen Portal |
| Billing/plan error on `POST /devices` | Free plan, cloud devices need subscription | Tell user to check plans at https://cloud.mobilerun.ai/billing |
| Action returns error on valid device | Device may be busy, locked, or unresponsive | Try taking a screenshot first to check state |
| `403` with "limit reached" | Plan limit hit (e.g. max concurrent devices) | User needs to terminate a device or upgrade (see [subscription.md](./subscription.md)) |
